Bangkok
Home to at least six million people, we call this city the “City of Angels” (Krung Thep). It sprawls for miles across what used to be a swamp. Some people are lucky enough to live near one of the stations of the skytrain. Now four years old, the skytrain has made a massive difference to getting around the city. Nevertheless, air pollution from traffic is still terrible on some days. The Public Health Ministry recently announced that the average IQ of children here has dropped 11 points below the world average – they are blaming lead poisoning from exhaust fumes. I take a motorbike to work, the only kind of taxi that will get me there on time on a weekday. We weave in and out of the traffic that is always a bit of a shock to newcomers. We pass half-built skyscrapers left abandoned after the 1997 economic crash, then past a state-of-the-art shopping mall and streets filled with food stalls selling the best food in the world, especially if you like it spicy. Planning what goes where always seems a bit random. With bars, nightclubs, restaurants and hawkers selling cheap copy clothes, shoes and watches to our many visitors, it’s a loud place too. The city’s temples (wats) are one of the few places to find peace and quiet. Traffic isn’t the only thing on the city’s roads. In the evenings, some elephant owners bring their animals into the city to sell sugar cane and earn a bit of money from tourists. Seeing an elephant walking down a main street sounds amazing, our streets are no places for elephants. Elephants were banned from the city’s streets earlier in the year, but it only took a few months before they returned. I suppose there are worse problems to worry about. Yaa-baa, a type of speed, has caused havoc – yaa-baa means ‘crazy drug’ in English, and a year ago there were many addicts on the streets of the city. Since then, there has been a heavy crackdown on dealers and addicts across the country. The newspapers say that thousands have died, gunned down by police, but the government says that the problem is going away.