Bogotá
Although I live in the tropics, at 2,600 metres above sea level this city is lovely because there is spring-like weather all year around. It is situated beneath two distinct and gorgeous hills, Monserrate and Guadalupe.  From here, you can see the modern skyline with its neon signs of Burger King, Tower Records and others, and La Candelaría, the old colonial part of the city. For some, the high altitude is a physical challenge. It is also a challenge to keep up with the hectic hustle and bustle of a city of nearly 11 million people. Street vendors sprout like mushrooms on every corner; they sell anything from herbal teas, arépas (corn cakes) avocados, potatoes, batteries, mobile phones, jewellery and medicines. In the last ten years I have noticed how traffic congestion has become overwhelming at times, along with the noise of horns and blaring radios on overcrowded buses.  I’m delighted with recent efforts to reduce traffic, like the staggered licence plate system and restricted parking on the sidewalks. We also have new buses called Transmelenio, (locally called, Transmilleno, or trans-full, as they are always overcrowded during rush hour). It all helps, but sometimes the system doesn’t work. The cost of living is high too even though some people only make £150 a year. The political situation in my country has caused a rise in crime - I know that kidnappings and violence is what most people hear about my city elsewhere in the world. But the authorities have tried hard to make the city more pleasant and secure. There are an incredible number of options for going out - it’s hard to keep up with the number of cool new bars, clubs and restaurants.  Parks have become a good place to hang out, even at night. There are lots of cultural activities here too, like street theatre, concerts and international film festivals. At weekends, I get to see my family, and we often go out to "La Sabana" country on the edge of the city to eat roast and get some fresh air. Even if people think it’s not as safe to live here as other cities, efforts made in the last ten years have made my city much more lively and interesting.