Budapest
For me, this city is just the right size – it’s small enough to easily bump into people you know, but big enough to get lost in. The only thing missing is the sea, but to keep us close to water we have a river dividing the city in half, with a couple of islands in between. During rush hour it can take an hour and a half to get from one side of the river to the other by car. It takes five minutes via the underground, but we only have three subway lines (one is the oldest in the world) even though 2.5 million people live here! Not surprisingly, traffic is mad and bad. They are talking about closing off most of downtown to traffic once the ring roads are built. But now the city is very polluted. You just have to look at the buildings to see the massive changes that have taken place in this city – historical monuments, mementos of the communist days, the modern buildings, and there are a crazy amount of cafés and cinemas. Thanks to the city’s 120 natural hot springs, health spas and Turkish baths are very important part of life here as well – all ages use them. In the past few years, they have started holding huge parties at Turkish baths – they are the best! The city is becoming more multicultural, although it’s not as colourful as I would like it to be. There are many Russians here, and plenty of other foreigners work in banks, hotels and for multinational companies. All the big fast food chains have been appearing in the past ten years too. The cost of living is getting close to the western world yet without the salaries to match. There are a growing number of very rich people, but many of them are accused of corruption. Crime is generally high – I do not feel safe walking alone late at night, and there is lots of car theft, prostitution and burglaries. The mafia is here too, trying to put their hand in new markets. Many people still don’t trust whoever is in power, as they say they have been mislead too many times. The question people are asking now is will we be better off when we join the European Union? It may have a fair share of problems, but most people I know love living in this city.