Buenos Aires
I may live in a South American city, but it has as much in common with European cities than others on this continent. Most people live in apartment blocks with open balconies much like Madrid, Paris or Rome, and the city’s 9th de Julio street is the world’s widest avenue. For this country, the city is huge – about a third of the country’s population lives in its metropolitan area. It is a lively place to live, especially at night time. Most people go out to eat around 11 pm then hit the bars around 1 am. And nightclubs don’t even open until 3 am! There is a big dance scene here, and tango is currently making a comeback as young people pick up this traditional form of dance that was born here. Football is another big passion. Maradona, possibly the best player ever, was born in Boca, one of the poorer districts on the southern outskirts of the city. Maradona used to play for the football club, Boca Juniors and he is almost treated like a god here. Another area of the city is home to River Plate, another successful football club that is known as ‘the millionaire’s club’ as the players earn so much money. Two years ago, the city was in turmoil. The country’s debt was out of control after the government had borrowed more and more from lenders overseas, and the economy had been poorly managed for years. As a desperate measure, the currency was devalued by two-thirds of its value. People reacted angrily as their savings and properties were suddenly worth so little. Over that Christmas/New Year period, the streets were filled with ordinary people protesting. When some of the protests turned into riots the authorities hit back with tear gas and showers of rubber bullets. It was chaos, and for the first time serious crimes, including murder, became commonplace. Thankfully, the tension of those times has died down, and it feels like a peaceful, safe city again. With the devalued peso, most people can no longer afford to travel or buy things from abroad but they are getting on with their lives. With our new President, there is a feeling of optimism for the future. Nevertheless, you can still see bullet holes in buildings, and many of our monuments are daubed with graffiti written by angry protesters.