Havana
This city has seen quite a few changes recently, thanks to the many tourists on package holidays from the UK. The movie, “Buena Vista Social Club” with its celebration of the great jazz era probably helped. The beaches of Varadero and Guardalavaca and the nightclubs in the old part of the city are teeming with tourists. The best of these is the Tropicana. Here, in an open air theatre the best dancers on the island entertain to the sound of some of the most rhythmic music on earth. But most of our visitors see few of the people that were brought up here, apart from taxi drivers and tour guides, or the people that crowd onto jam-packed, elongated buses called ‘Guaguas’, weaving round giant pot holes through Revolution Square. As well as the Guaguas, you may see an old Buick cruising round. This city is famous for its old American cars. Many of the houses are old too. I live on a block of terraced houses, which like all the other houses on the street has two bedrooms, a sitting room, a kitchen-cum-dining room and a bathroom. The street has a series of pipes that flows into barrels for our water supply. Some people on my street still have their old Russian TV sets, washing machines and fridges from the days when we used to get a lot of help from the Soviet Union. In many ways, the city is in a time warp since the American embargo began over forty years ago, and we can no longer rely on help from Russia. ‘Roto’ (broken) is a word you hear a lot here, and we have become a city of repairers and improvisers. Nothing is thrown away that could be recycled, like tin cans, polythene bags and beer bottles. Food is difficult to come by too. Most of it is rationed and many of the shops’ shelves just gather dust. A special treat would be a pig, but if we have one, we keep it indoors. If we left it outside, thieves are likely to help themselves to a few pork chops. Nevertheless, although you would be foolish to flash your wallet or wear expensive jewellery, crime is generally pretty low here. Perhaps it’s because there are more police on the street these days. Car owners can suffer though – you could wake up in the morning to find you have no tyres or wing mirrors!