Istanbul
My city is built on seven hills, where they say east meets west. It continues to grow outwards as large numbers of rural migrants move here. Many of them have heard the phrase, “this city’s hills and pebbles are made from gold” but the reality is different for most people! Here, the ancient meets the modern in a relatively small area. The east has preserved most of its historical beauty but the western half is very different, home to the heart of the modern economy. But it is some of the older buildings in the western part that suffer in an earthquake. We have to get used to earthquakes – the last one in 1999 really shook things up. My parents’ house lost its chimneys and part of the roof. In the last 25 years our currency (the lira) has had three zeros added to it. Inflation is high too, and this is the most expensive city to live in the whole country! There are new jobs around these days, especially in IT, but most employers insist on good English as a qualification. The higher costs of living and the job situation have led to a rise in crime. The bomb at the British Consulate in November 2003 has added a new dimension to crime. Many people saw this act of terrorism as a ‘one-off’, but recently, more bombs went off three days in a row. A lot of citizens are angry and blame the Kurds even though they are our brothers. When I was a child, public transport was a nightmare. Now, we have two metro lines that connect the main airport to the city centre, more buses and trams, and better roads. Nevertheless, traffic and air pollution are big problems here. The two major bridges are often clogged with traffic, and when it snows in the winter, life grinds to a halt. During the snowstorms of 2002 I was stranded on one side of the city because the ships couldn’t operate. People from all over the world visit this city because of its very special location, history, religious significance and cheaper prices compared to other European cities. In the evenings, the city comes to life in the hundreds of nightclubs and tavernas. Famous musicians and artists perform open-air concerts in one of the castles during the summer. And you will never go hungry here – restaurants and cafés cater for every budget. Floating restaurants sell barbequed or fried fish at half the price. We have approximately 35 national TV channels and thirty of them are free. ‘Pop Idol’ and ‘Fame Academy’ are very popular as people are pop star crazy in this city!