Kampala
Built across seven green, lush hills and about a 1½ hour drive from a source of the river Nile, this capital city has a very bloody history but it has seen some changes for the better in the last twenty years. It is now one of the most relaxed cities on the continent and is still small enough to feel like a large town rather than a city. The city is developing quite quickly. Internet cafés have sprung up all over the place and more and more people use mobile phones. There is plenty to do, with bars and nightclubs, good restaurants, cinemas, and a new shopping centre and bowling alley. On TV, “Big Brother” recently took the city by storm. The gap between rich and poor is stark. Some people drive past in top-of-the-range imported cars. Being a landlocked country, imported goods are expensive because they have to be brought in by air or overland from the coastal ports of countries to the east.  Meanwhile, many poorer families grow their own food in the city itself thanks to the fertile soil and favourable equatorial climate. Others walk around barefoot and scavenge for food in skips. There seems to be more beggars on the streets now, probably because of people fleeing from the conflicts further north. This bustling city has a friendly atmosphere and is more multicultural than many places. Christianity is the main religion, and there are many Muslims. There are also several Hindu temples as the Asian community is growing again. Thankfully, we do not suffer from the problem of violent crime, although some people feel more at ease sleeping behind high walls and iron bars. There are armed security guards everywhere too, some with guns and others with bows & arrows. Driving conditions across the city are bad, and accidents are common. Still, public transport – especially minibuses and scooter taxis - is cheap even though it is not too safe.  Apart from road accidents, the major health hazards in the city are malaria and HIV/AIDS.  Awareness of malaria and HIV/AIDS is much better these days thanks to education programmes and campaigns but unfortunately many people cannot afford proper healthcare.