Kuala Lumpur
The city mirrors how fast the whole country is developing to achieve the government’s goal to become fully developed by 2020.  The skyline is impressive, dominated by the Petronas twin towers, the world’s tallest building. Next door is the huge, spacious Suria shopping mall with shops selling the latest Hugo Boss, Armani and Calvin Klein as well as the more local, more affordable outlets. The mall also has its own multiplex cinema, and on the edge of the city we have a world class Formula One circuit. Our transport network is very modern too. Although we have traffic congestion during rush hour, the city’s light rail transit, train network, buses and taxis make the city very easy to travel to, from and within. It is even possible to take a high speed train from the brand new international airport to the city centre and back again in the space of 25 minutes! The city has always been a multicultural place because of its history. The population are made up of a mixture of Malays (who are the majority), Chinese and Indians. People live peacefully with one another, and our crime rate is very low. Laws and punishments for drug abuse are very strict so compared to most places drug problems are rare. Nightspots are just like any other developed city. The most popular stretch is the Jalan P. Ramlee. Here, the nightclubs play house, trance, R&B or acid jazz and we get guest appearances by many world class DJs like Paul Oakenfold, Sasha and LTJ Bukem. For something a bit more laid back people head down to an area known as Bangsar with bars and pubs of all sorts, from Finnegans, an Irish pub, to the more classy ones like ‘The Social’ frequented by the who's who of the city’s celebrity scene. When you are hungry or looking for a place to chill out with pals after a long night, the city’s food stalls are a perfect place. We are spoilt when it comes to food. All over the city there are food stalls open all night, selling local delicacies like roti canai (like a southern Indian pizza) which goes really well with Nasi Lemak, a fish curry with coconut rice, fried anchovies, sambal (chilli paste), boiled egg and peanuts.