London
“When a man is tired of this city he is tired of life; because there is here all that life can afford”.  That’s how Samuel Johnson felt over 200 years ago. These days, just as many people feel as tired of this city as those who are animated and enthused by it. People have a love/hate relationship with this city and often both emotions are felt in the same breath. If you can afford it the city can give you any lifestyle you want - leafy greens, cloistered avenues, urban fever, polyglot dining, world-class sport and unrivalled arts. With attractions like the Tate Modern, Notting Hill Carnival and theatre of every kind it is a city of stunning diversity. Today, it’s the most cosmopolitan city in the world - over 300 languages are spoken here and a quarter of the city’s residents were born outside the country. There is always something to do or something to see but the downside is that you need a lot of money to enjoy the city. Trying to find a place to rent or buy in the city is almost impossible unless you’re earning a fortune and the hectic lifestyle can lead to a quick burn-out. The transport system leaves a lot to be desired and traffic jams and pollution are a part of living here. It has the world’s oldest tube system but it’s now bursting at the seams. Newly introduced congestion charges have helped to reduce the traffic but you’re often better off walking than getting in a car. Many people come here to lose themselves and tragically some end up getting lost. Alongside the wealth and hedonism there is poverty and homelessness. Although measures have been taken to tackle crime, the American import of crack-related crime and the guns that come with it has made some parts of the city scary and dangerous. People come to live here for many reasons, not least because it is still Europe’s main financial centre – the city generates more money in a year than the whole of Switzerland. Many come here like Dick Whittington to seek their fortune and expect the streets to be paved with gold but all too often find that their dreams are shattered as they seek to carve out a living.