Moscow
This city was established in 1147 on the banks of the Moskva river by the Grand Prince of Kiev, Yuri. Today, the city is a bustling metropolis with a population of about 12 million people. The population has increased by about 30% in the last ten years as people have decided to move to the city with the hope of creating a better life for themselves and their children. So many extra people has created many problems here. The two main ones are drugs and crime, which in many ways are linked to each other. Many young kids start taking drugs like heroin and then get sucked into crime to pay for their drug addiction. The authorities often turn a blind eye on the problem because the criminals pay them bribes. There is also a big rise in HIV infection from people using dirty needles. But more people has brought more money into the city. The extra money has helped to develop the city’s infrastructure dramatically. Many new roads and subway lines have been built recently. Cultural buildings have been refurbished and re-opened for public use. The Church of Christ the Saviour is one of the main development projects in the city - this has been re-built from scratch to replace the same church that was demolished by the communist government nearly a hundred years ago. With more museums, galleries and theatres, more and more tourists are coming to see our cultural heritage. The most famous landmark of the city is the Kremlin. This was the fortress built in the 14th century to protect the city from the raging tribes. The Kremlin is now used by the president of the country. This city is one of contrasts. Although there are many new and expensive buildings with state-of-the-art, fashionable apartments there are also many old Soviet style apartment blocks that are in dire need of repair. Both poverty and wealth can be seen on the streets at the same time. The most obvious example are the cars. At a traffic light in the city you can see the newest Mercedes S-Class standing next to a 20 year old Lada. And in terms of the cost of living, this city is now ranked as the second most expensive city in the world!