Nairobi
The city sits on a plain high above sea level. We call it, "the city in the sun" as it enjoys sunshine for most of the year. No wonder the British colonialists could not resist settling here. Today, there are wide roads, parks, and modern shopping malls - everything you need in a big city is available. And where else on earth could you go on a game walk and see giraffes, elephants, lions and cheaters in their natural habitat behind the backdrop of a modern city skyline? But all is not rosy in this city. Noise and air pollution plagues the eastern part, and pressure to industrialise threatens the wildlife park. The cost of living in the city is rising by up to 10% a year, and it is home to one of the largest slums in the world - over 40% of the city's population reside here. Like Amsterdam, the city has a ‘red light district’ too where sex workers try their luck at the risk of being arrested. Nightlife is very active. People move from one club to another depending on the type of music they want, be it African tunes, hip-hop, rap or jazz. One of the most modern clubs, Florida 2000, popularly known as'F2', may be ten thousand miles away from the USA but it may just as well be in Miami. In F2, young people from all races and nationalities mingle freely. In many of the clubs, a new breed of music with a strong hip-hop and rap influence that mixes English and local languages, is replacing western music. Like any other city, there are heavy traffic jams during rush hour, yet the traffic situation has improved in the last two years - our new government is raising the standard of public transport and repairing the road network. Most people travel across the city in Matatus, multi-coloured commuter vans with blaring sound systems. Matatu drivers rarely observe traffic rules. If they are stopped for a traffic offence, they give a 'kitu kidogo' (a bribe) to the traffic police and move on. Mobile phones are a very common feature in the city nowadays and just like the western world people here change them for new models very regularly. And for those who would like to eat game meat, "The Carnivore" is rated as one of the best restaurants in the world!