New York City
Ten minutes before the alarm goes off my sleep is often interrupted by a garbage truck or perhaps an angry driver who in desperation, has decided that the only way to get the attention of other drivers is to place his hand on the horn. The traffic is heavy in small streets - car after car of people wishing they had never decided to drive into the city. Meanwhile, people in cabs look at their watches and then at the rising meter as they listen to the driver curse everyone in sight. We reach for our cell phones to explain why we will be late for work. At least the subway is reliable and cheap – only $2 anywhere. There are plenty of buses too but you could probably outrun them if you're under the age of sixty. “A city where dreams come true”, so they say, yet apart from the subway the cost of living is at an all time high. The city authorities try to bring business to some poor neighbourhoods to bring new life to a forgotten area, but this only increases the rent. Still, over the last ten years crime has definitely fallen. It’s still safer to stay clear of some areas, but with cops on almost every block these days, the fear of walking alone at night is a distant memory. The fear of crime had been replaced with a fear of terrorism. Since 9/11, this city has been on high alert. All it takes is a power failure to open up old wounds. If you want a multicultural experience, you're in the right place. They say there’s no such thing as a native person in this city. The best place to witness the diversity is the subway. Every race, culture and age group can be found sitting alongside each other. It's a tourist paradise for sightseeing as well.  For those of us who live here, a night out is all you need to make you appreciate the city whilst also leaving you broke for a week. Each neighbourhood offers a different atmosphere - lounges, bars, clubs and restaurants on every street, although we now have to go outside for a smoke. Your wallet will cry, you head will ache but this is the place to be - make no mistake!