Reykjavik
The city is cold and grey in wintertime - there’s not much happening except going to the movies or theatre. There is one thing you can do all year round, that's going downtown and party all night long. The cosmopolitan nightlife or “runtur” (meaning circuit) is pretty wild at times especially in summertime. Klarvin is the local vodka. The nightlife starts around midnight and doesn’t stop until the morning. Some people don’t get home until 10am! Summertime is good here. It’s bright and warm and the amusement park arrives in the city gardens (mid-April to mid-September). People take walks downtown and enjoy life as much as possible during the long daylight hours. There is clear air in the city with very little pollution. The city has plenty of good water, both cold and hot, which is used in the outdoor swimming pools that are enjoyed especially on sunny days. The hot water is supplied from natural, geo-thermal sources. Although road traffic is not a serious problem in the country as a whole, traffic seems to be getting heavier and heavier with every day that passes. Traffic in the city is worst when you are getting to and from work or school, then you always get caught in traffic jams and always there is someone who doesn’t know how to drive on busy roads. There is a high standard of living here with consumer goods, such as satellite television, in every home. The people are very high-tech - 80% of the nation has GSM cell phones, every kid down to 10 years old has a cell phone. Also, almost every home has a high-speed internet connection. The crime rate is rather low but it is growing each year. The streets are still safe to walk at day and night though. This is the northern-most capital city, and it has been expanding through the years. Although at 112,000 it is not a huge city, it is home to half the country’s population. It has an open layout without high-rise buildings. This allows the domestic airport to be in the centre of the city, which is good as you only have to go a short distance when you are taking flight to other places in the country. There is also an international airport further from the city. It has a sea-going harbour for passengers and freight, especially fish and marine produce.