1A: Sydney

Built around the shores of the world’s largest natural harbour, my city is a mix & match of architectural styles and cultural influences, both Asian and European. Because of the building boom of the ‘70s, large corporate skyscrapers line the backdrop of white sandy beaches and coves. With few old buildings, it definitely gives the impression of a new, modern city. 

In the last ten years or so more cultures have arrived, many from Asia which gives us a great deal of quality food and Asian high street fashion along with a feeling that we are now more like America than Europe. The bicentennial celebrations in 1988 and the massive harbour redevelopment project boosted the city's standing in the country and the world. Vast amounts of money also poured into city after we won the bid to host the 2000 Olympic Games. It’s a special place now! 

Though unemployment is still high so too is the quality of life. There are hundreds of restaurants and bars where you can eat and drink cheaply all through the night. Our transport system of rail, bus or ferry generally runs on time so it's easy to spend nights drinking in one of the many hotels that seem to be on every street corner. Weekend recovery is generally spent on one of the city's beaches, either soaking up the sun, having barbecues with friends, or surfing the great Pacific waves.

Being right on the coast means that generally the air quality is good apart from when bush fire smoke hangs over the city in the summer sometimes.
Even on cool winter days, it’s still warm enough to visit the beach or play sport. Most people are big fans of rugby and cricket, and a trip to the football stadium to watch the Swans is a favourite past time.

1B: Johannesburg 

Despite the huge political changes in our country, we still live in the same house, in the same suburb, behind the same high walls and gates, with a burglar alarm and armed response guards.  We are continually reminded of the crime rate through television, radio and the press. Although only three million people live here, there are more than five thousand murders a year and at least twice as many rapes. Police admit that they do not control large areas of the city. We try to ignore it – after all, it’s been like this for a long time.  
The city suffers from high rates of air pollution from vehicle exhaust, open fires and coal-burning for cooking and heating. The city’s two rivers are also considered unsafe, primarily because of untreated human waste and chemicals leaching from piles of mining dross. Mining has also contaminated much of the soil in the vicinity. The AIDS epidemic has made things worse for many people. Nationally, it is feared that the number of infected people may be as high as 20 percent of the population. 
During our normal daily lives we don’t travel any great distances.  It’s a long time since we went into the centre of the city. Shopping malls are everywhere so everything we need is “on our doorstep”.  Most major businesses have moved to the suburbs and buildings which used to house them in the Central Business District are now occupied by people just wanting a roof over their heads.  Accommodation has always been at a premium here as, despite our problems, many flock to our city from the rest of the continent and the rest of the world, coming to look for work, and staying to enjoy the lively cosmopolitan atmosphere and the wonderful year-round sunny climate.
1C: Moscow

This city was established in 1147 on the banks of the Moskva river by the Grand Prince of Kiev, Yuri. Today, the city is a bustling metropolis with a population of about 12 million people. The population has increased by about 30% in the last ten years as people have decided to move to the city with the hope of creating a better life for themselves and their children. 

So many extra people has created many problems here. The two main ones are drugs and crime, which in many ways are linked to each other. Many young kids start taking drugs like heroin and then get sucked into crime to pay for their drug addiction. The authorities often turn a blind eye on the problem because the criminals pay them bribes. There is also a big rise in HIV infection from people using dirty needles. 

But more people has brought more money into the city. The extra money has helped to develop the city’s infrastructure dramatically. Many new roads and subway lines have been built recently. Cultural buildings have been refurbished and re-opened for public use. The Church of Christ the Saviour is one of the main development projects in the city - this has been re-built from scratch to replace the same church that was demolished by the communist government nearly a hundred years ago. With more museums, galleries and theatres, more and more tourists are coming to see our cultural heritage. The most famous landmark of the city is the Kremlin. This was the fortress built in the 14th century to protect the city from the raging tribes. The Kremlin is now used by the president of the country.

This city is one of contrasts. Although there are many new and expensive buildings with state-of-the-art, fashionable apartments there are also many old Soviet style apartment blocks that are in dire need of repair. Both poverty and wealth can be seen on the streets at the same time. The most obvious example are the cars. At a traffic light in the city you can see the newest Mercedes S-Class standing next to a 20 year old Lada. And in terms of the cost of living, this city is now ranked as the second most expensive city in the world!

1D: Rio de Janeiro

This has got to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world. With their mountain backdrops, Copacabana and Ipanema beaches are world famous, and an apartment on one of these beachfronts can cost millions. Elsewhere in the city, many people – about a fifth – live in shanty towns known here as favelas. It is hard to live in a favela yet people do look out for each other. There are now more projects to improve favela life - building schools and community centres and providing courses in computer training - but many residents are quite cynical about the city authorities, especially as the cost of living is so high these days. Not long ago, half a million people voted for a monkey to become mayor of the city to show their disapproval. Some of the city’s former favela dwellers are now world famous – Ronaldo was one of many footballers to kick his way out of a favela. 

Crime seems to be getting worse by the day, most of it connected to rival drug gangs selling cocaine or crack. When Michael Jackson made the video for “They don’t care about us” in one of the favelas his people had to negotiate with the local drug lords. Battles between the police and the drug gangs have got worse and worse. I read recently that more police officers have been killed this year than American armed forces in Iraq. 

Thanks to the bay, sea breezes help to blow away a lot of the pollution despite the number of crowded freeways across the city. There is a subway train system too which makes it easier to get to downtown parts of the city. With ancestors from Europe, Africa and other parts of South America, this city has a very rich cultural mix. It comes alive at Carnival time in February with every favela putting together its own music and dance troupe – yes, it’s definitely a fine city for partying! 

1E: Taipei

The city that I live in today is much better than it was ten years ago. The economy may not be so healthy, but this is such a modern city. New technology is everywhere – many of the new models of mobile phones and computers are made here and we get them first! It’s very international with a 7-Eleven or Starbucks on every street, and we have many other foreign banks, restaurants, bookstores, even schools in the city. Karaoke bars are everywhere too.

It’s cleaner than it used to be – streets seem to be swept more often, and our new highways and mass transit rail system have helped a bit with the traffic. We’ve still got traffic problems though, and pollution can be bad, especially from the millions of motorbikes and scooters on the streets. As the city lies in a bowl surrounded by mountains, the pollution sits on top of us on some days like a blanket. A great way to escape the city and get some clean air is to walk a few blocks after the World Trade Center on Hsinyi road and head up into the mountains. It is beautiful up there. 

In September 1999, everyone in the city woke up to a rumbling roar from a 7.3 earthquake, the worst for a hundred years. Thousands of buildings collapsed and more than a thousand people died. We get bad floods sometimes as well. A couple of years ago, the whole city was underwater. Thousands of cars were left abandoned and floating along streets. Basements were completely flooded too, and I heard that about 80% of people didn’t have insurance for natural disasters. 

In such a modern city, there are always things to do, things to buy, bills to pay, etc but not always enough money to earn. Competition for jobs can be intense, and I am thinking of moving to China where I can earn more money and have a better standard of living. Some of my friends have already moved, and I won’t have problems with the language either.  

1F: Mexico City

To start with it's probably the most populated city on the planet. We are a population of 22 million but many people are not recorded.  

As you might imagine with such a huge population it is one of the most polluted cities in the world. The high altitude makes the air thinner, and the pollution from cars and factories gets trapped and concentrated in the valley. If you don’t know what it’s like to smoke 60 a day, come and visit! The air is so dirty that when children paint a picture of the sky they often paint it grey. Breathing problems, headaches, coughs and eye infections are common, and thousands die from the pollution every year. 

Crime is getting out of control too. Car-jacking and taxi-jacking is so common now that visitors are warned not to use the cabs! The police department has more officers than the Canadian army but there is still not enough. Many of them are corrupt anyway.  

Another problem is thanks to the Spanish. When they ruled the country, they thought (not very wisely) that Lake Texcoco should be turned into land. This is now part of the eastern outskirts of the city and it is sinking. It is also the place that shook the most during our worst earthquake in 1985. 

The city is changing fast – new buildings are going up everywhere. But the cost of living is very high; I read somewhere that the cost of living is about the same as Geneva but without the social benefits or infrastructure. There is a huge gap between rich and poor too. Many people have terrible living conditions and for the poor, it is a struggle to survive in this chaotic place. 

You can have a lot of fun though. The nightlife is amazing and people know how to enjoy themselves, no matter what their income bracket. It's the only way to cope with all the stress! The art scene is incredibly rich and with a wide and interesting mix of artists. It may not be London or New York, but compared to most Latin American cities it is very multicultural. 

2A: Banjul

My home city must be one of the smallest capitals in the world. It was built on a small island so there is no room for it to grow. There is just one road across the mangrove swamps connecting the city with the rest of the country. A much bigger town has developed on the mainland about 7 kilometres away.

There are no tall office buildings or blocks of flats in my city. The tallest building is an arch built to commemorate a military coup in 1995. The best views of the city can be got from the top of the arch. From here you can see the mosque, the hospital and the docks where we export peanuts and import things like fabric, rice and cars.

In the last ten years the sea has posed a big problem and we have had to get advice from the Dutch to prevent erosion. Large blocks of concrete have been put all along the ocean side of the island to protect the coastline.

There are not many jobs at the moment and prices are going up really quickly but just about everyone has a mobile phone. There are a lot more cars and we now know about traffic jams but in the whole country we still only have one set of traffic lights.

Me and my friends like to hang out brewing attaya, a strong sweet tea. We all support British football teams and we can talk about football for hours and hours. Now and then we go to the movies.

Most of the foreigners around here are tourists who stay in the hotels about 15 kilometres away. They come here for the sea, sun and what we call the ‘Smiling Coast’. One of my friends has a taxi and takes tourists round the country. Another runs an internet café.

Life isn’t always easy but I wouldn’t want to live anywhere else.



2B: Beirut

I live in a city that 13 years ago was one of the biggest disaster areas in the world.  Back then, finding a building which was not peppered with bullet holes would have been as rare as winning the lottery. Today I am happy to say the city has been rebuilt and much of its pre-war glory has returned. Once again, we can call it, “the Paris of the Middle East”! 

The city is one of the oldest in the world and since the beginning of its existence it has been a melting pot for different religions, cultures and races.  With only a population of four million people there are 17 different religions living together and sharing the same land.  The fact that the city is situated on the shores of the Mediterranean, and is close to Africa, Asia, and Europe has a lot to do with it.  

It is pretty expensive to live here, and there is a large gap between rich and poor. Although food is quite cheap electricity and phone bills are amongst the highest in the world.  This city was also ranked in the top three in the world for the number of cars (and mobile phones!) per person so it’s no surprise that there is a lot of traffic on the streets. Air pollution may be improving with the ban on diesel engines, but it’s still quite bad.  

This city is well known for its nightlife and restaurants and caters for all age groups. The younger crowd hang out in bars and clubs while the older people tend to prefer lounges and restaurants. My city is now a big destination for tourists as it has mountain ranges and beaches all within twenty minutes of each other.  During the winter people come to ski on the snow-covered mountains and during the summer they can enjoy our beaches.  

The crime rate is relatively low, but the political situation can be tense because of troubles elsewhere in the region. None of us wants a return to those war-torn years. 

2C: London

“When a man is tired of this city he is tired of life; because there is here all that life can afford”.  That’s how Samuel Johnson felt over 200 years ago. These days, just as many people feel as tired of this city as those who are animated and enthused by it. People have a love/hate relationship with this city and often both emotions are felt in the same breath. 

If you can afford it the city can give you any lifestyle you want - leafy greens, cloistered avenues, urban fever, polyglot dining, world-class sport and unrivalled arts. With attractions like the Tate Modern, Notting Hill Carnival and theatre of every kind it is a city of stunning diversity. Today, it’s the most cosmopolitan city in the world - over 300 languages are spoken here and a quarter of the city’s residents were born outside the country.

There is always something to do or something to see but the downside is that you need a lot of money to enjoy the city. Trying to find a place to rent or buy in the city is almost impossible unless you’re earning a fortune and the hectic lifestyle can lead to a quick burn-out. 

The transport system leaves a lot to be desired and traffic jams and pollution are a part of living here. It has the world’s oldest tube system but it’s now bursting at the seams. Newly introduced congestion charges have helped to reduce the traffic but you’re often better off walking than getting in a car.  

Many people come here to lose themselves and tragically some end up getting lost. Alongside the wealth and hedonism there is poverty and homelessness. Although measures have been taken to tackle crime, the American import of crack-related crime and the guns that come with it has made some parts of the city scary and dangerous. 

People come to live here for many reasons, not least because it is still Europe’s main financial centre – the city generates more money in a year than the whole of Switzerland. Many come here like Dick Whittington to seek their fortune and expect the streets to be paved with gold but all too often find that their dreams are shattered as they seek to carve out a living.

2D: Kuala Lumpur
The city mirrors how fast the whole country is developing to achieve the government’s goal to become fully developed by 2020.  The skyline is impressive, dominated by the Petronas twin towers, the world’s tallest building. Next door is the huge, spacious Suria shopping mall with shops selling the latest Hugo Boss, Armani and Calvin Klein as well as the more local, more affordable outlets. The mall also has its own multiplex cinema, and on the edge of the city we have a world class Formula One circuit. 
Our transport network is very modern too. Although we have traffic congestion during rush hour, the city’s light rail transit, train network, buses and taxis make the city very easy to travel to, from and within. It is even possible to take a high speed train from the brand new international airport to the city centre and back again in the space of 25 minutes!
The city has always been a multicultural place because of its history. The population are made up of a mixture of Malays (who are the majority), Chinese and Indians. People live peacefully with one another, and our crime rate is very low. Laws and punishments for drug abuse are very strict so compared to most places drug problems are rare.  
Nightspots are just like any other developed city. The most popular stretch is the Jalan P. Ramlee. Here, the nightclubs play house, trance, R&B or acid jazz and we get guest appearances by many world class DJs like Paul Oakenfold, Sasha and LTJ Bukem. For something a bit more laid back people head down to an area known as Bangsar with bars and pubs of all sorts, from Finnegans, an Irish pub, to the more classy ones like ‘The Social’ frequented by the who's who of the city’s celebrity scene. 
When you are hungry or looking for a place to chill out with pals after a long night, the city’s food stalls are a perfect place. We are spoilt when it comes to food. All over the city there are food stalls open all night, selling local delicacies like roti canai (like a southern Indian pizza) which goes really well with Nasi Lemak, a fish curry with coconut rice, fried anchovies, sambal (chilli paste), boiled egg and peanuts. 
2E: Warsaw
The thing that is most likely to strike newcomers is the city’s mixture of architecture. Different eras blend together - communist tower blocks stand next to 21stcentury skyscrapers of which New Yorkers would be jealous. But many stand empty as the economic depression put many companies out of business, and the country’s laws discouraged foreigners from investing here.  In the industrial area of Wola in the west, the huge factories making heavy machinery, automobiles, and consumer electronics are almost all gone too. Some have been turned into service facilities, like banks, or rare entertainment spots (underground clubs and bikers bars). Most people are now employed in the service sector, like in the huge hypermarkets and shopping malls that have appeared all over the city, especially on the outskirts.  
 
The most attractive part of the city is Starówka, the old city, now a UN-protected heritage site. The rebuilding work here is outstanding, as they used pre-war photos and 18th century paintings to restore it to its original splendour.   

Many people live in tower blocks around the city centre, which are much like inner city areas elsewhere. These places, like Ursynów and Grochów, are rundown and dirty. Some are the battleground of youth gangs known as “Blockers”. Others are covered with racist graffiti. Meanwhile, richer inhabitants live in small, one family houses, or secure neighbourhoods surrounded by walls in districts like Mokotów, but this is only the privileged few. 
  
Public transport reflects the lack of money put into the city. I have no car and suffer almost everyday in buses, trams and the tube!  Roads are frequently full of holes and during heavy rain, our inefficient drainage system can cause floods in the streets. When you go in a bus or a car during a storm it’s like being in a motorboat!  But the buses and trams go almost everywhere within the city, so you can get where you want easily.  There are plenty of cheap taxis too.  

2F: Havana

This city has seen quite a few changes recently, thanks to the many tourists on package holidays from the UK. The movie, “Buena Vista Social Club” with its celebration of the great jazz era probably helped. The beaches of Varadero and Guardalavaca and the nightclubs in the old part of the city are teeming with tourists. The best of these is the Tropicana. Here, in an open air theatre the best dancers on the island entertain to the sound of some of the most rhythmic music on earth. But most of our visitors see few of the people that were brought up here, apart from taxi drivers and tour guides, or the people that crowd onto jam-packed, elongated buses called ‘Guaguas’, weaving round giant pot holes through Revolution Square.   

As well as the Guaguas, you may see an old Buick cruising round. This city is famous for its old American cars. Many of the houses are old too. I live on a block of terraced houses, which like all the other houses on the street has two bedrooms, a sitting room, a kitchen-cum-dining room and a bathroom. The street has a series of pipes that flows into barrels for our water supply. Some people on my street still have their old Russian TV sets, washing machines and fridges from the days when we used to get a lot of help from the Soviet Union. In many ways, the city is in a time warp since the American embargo began over forty years ago, and we can no longer rely on help from Russia. ‘Roto’ (broken) is a word you hear a lot here, and we have become a city of repairers and improvisers. Nothing is thrown away that could be recycled, like tin cans, polythene bags and beer bottles. 

Food is difficult to come by too. Most of it is rationed and many of the shops’ shelves just gather dust. A special treat would be a pig, but if we have one, we keep it indoors. If we left it outside, thieves are likely to help themselves to a few pork chops. Nevertheless, although you would be foolish to flash your wallet or wear expensive jewellery, crime is generally pretty low here. Perhaps it’s because there are more police on the street these days. Car owners can suffer though – you could wake up in the morning to find you have no tyres or wing mirrors!



3A: Istanbul

My city is built on seven hills, where they say east meets west. It continues to grow outwards as large numbers of rural migrants move here. Many of them have heard the phrase, “this city’s hills and pebbles are made from gold” but the reality is different for most people! 

Here, the ancient meets the modern in a relatively small area. The east has preserved most of its historical beauty but the western half is very different, home to the heart of the modern economy. But it is some of the older buildings in the western part that suffer in an earthquake. We have to get used to earthquakes – the last one in 1999 really shook things up. My parents’ house lost its chimneys and part of the roof.

In the last 25 years our currency (the lira) has had three zeros added to it. Inflation is high too, and this is the most expensive city to live in the whole country! There are new jobs around these days, especially in IT, but most employers insist on good English as a qualification. 

The higher costs of living and the job situation have led to a rise in crime. The bomb at the British Consulate in November 2003 has added a new dimension to crime. Many people saw this act of terrorism as a ‘one-off’, but recently, more bombs went off three days in a row. A lot of citizens are angry and blame the Kurds even though they are our brothers.  

When I was a child, public transport was a nightmare. Now, we have two metro lines that connect the main airport to the city centre, more buses and trams, and better roads. Nevertheless, traffic and air pollution are big problems here. The two major bridges are often clogged with traffic, and when it snows in the winter, life grinds to a halt. During the snowstorms of 2002 I was stranded on one side of the city because the ships couldn’t operate.

People from all over the world visit this city because of its very special location, history, religious significance and cheaper prices compared to other European cities. In the evenings, the city comes to life in the hundreds of nightclubs and tavernas. Famous musicians and artists perform open-air concerts in one of the castles during the summer. And you will never go hungry here – restaurants and cafés cater for every budget. Floating restaurants sell barbequed or fried fish at half the price. We have approximately 35 national TV channels and thirty of them are free. ‘Pop Idol’ and ‘Fame Academy’ are very popular as people are pop star crazy in this city! 

3B: Tokyo

This city has changed a lot in the last few years. The boom times are definitely over. It’s much harder to hold onto a job and sometimes you see unemployed businessmen living with their shame in cardboard cities under bridges. It doesn’t feel safe anymore either. Crime is on the rise, especially between gangs, and it’s more polluted too – a haze hangs over the city cutting out the sunlight, especially on hot and humid days in the summer. With the economy in trouble, house prices are falling which is a good thing. I used to live in an apartment that felt more like a box, but now I have found a place on the waterfront of the bay. I even have friends who live in new high-rise apartments right in the centre. 

The city is so big that it is more like having lots of cities within a city. I still make new discoveries every time I go out – it’s hard to get bored here. There are open spaces thanks to the hundreds of tiny parks across the city – they are good places to escape the fast pace of life here, and they are also places to run to if there’s an earthquake. Apparently, the city’s plan to cope with earthquakes is the best in the world. No-one wants a repeat of the disaster of the Great Kanto earthquake in 1923. 

No matter where you live, it doesn’t take long to get to the city centre. If you live out in Nagano for instance, you can take the Shinkansen bullet train that is dead quick. It’s a great city for food too. There are still many traditional sushi places where you can sit down at a counter and order the sushi you want to eat. Although it’s not westernized (yet!) fast food places are appearing as well. 




3C: New York City

Ten minutes before the alarm goes off my sleep is often interrupted by a garbage truck or perhaps an angry driver who in desperation, has decided that the only way to get the attention of other drivers is to place his hand on the horn. The traffic is heavy in small streets - car after car of people wishing they had never decided to drive into the city. Meanwhile, people in cabs look at their watches and then at the rising meter as they listen to the driver curse everyone in sight. We reach for our cell phones to explain why we will be late for work. At least the subway is reliable and cheap – only $2 anywhere. There are plenty of buses too but you could probably outrun them if you're under the age of sixty.

“A city where dreams come true”, so they say, yet apart from the subway the cost of living is at an all time high. The city authorities try to bring business to some poor neighbourhoods to bring new life to a forgotten area, but this only increases the rent. Still, over the last ten years crime has definitely fallen. It’s still safer to stay clear of some areas, but with cops on almost every block these days, the fear of walking alone at night is a distant memory. The fear of crime had been replaced with a fear of terrorism. Since 9/11, this city has been on high alert. All it takes is a power failure to open up old wounds. 

If you want a multicultural experience, you're in the right place. They say there’s no such thing as a native person in this city. The best place to witness the diversity is the subway. Every race, culture and age group can be found sitting alongside each other. It's a tourist paradise for sightseeing as well.  For those of us who live here, a night out is all you need to make you appreciate the city whilst also leaving you broke for a week. Each neighbourhood offers a different atmosphere - lounges, bars, clubs and restaurants on every street, although we now have to go outside for a smoke. 

Your wallet will cry, you head will ache but this is the place to be - make no mistake!




3D: Kampala

Built across seven green, lush hills and about a 1½ hour drive from a source of the river Nile, this capital city has a very bloody history but it has seen some changes for the better in the last twenty years. It is now one of the most relaxed cities on the continent and is still small enough to feel like a large town rather than a city. 

The city is developing quite quickly. Internet cafés have sprung up all over the place and more and more people use mobile phones. There is plenty to do, with bars and nightclubs, good restaurants, cinemas, and a new shopping centre and bowling alley. On TV, “Big Brother” recently took the city by storm.  

The gap between rich and poor is stark. Some people drive past in top-of-the-range imported cars. Being a landlocked country, imported goods are expensive because they have to be brought in by air or overland from the coastal ports of countries to the east.  Meanwhile, many poorer families grow their own food in the city itself thanks to the fertile soil and favourable equatorial climate. Others walk around barefoot and scavenge for food in skips. There seems to be more beggars on the streets now, probably because of people fleeing from the conflicts further north. 
 
This bustling city has a friendly atmosphere and is more multicultural than many places. Christianity is the main religion, and there are many Muslims. There are also several Hindu temples as the Asian community is growing again. Thankfully, we do not suffer from the problem of violent crime, although some people feel more at ease sleeping behind high walls and iron bars. There are armed security guards everywhere too, some with guns and others with bows & arrows.  

Driving conditions across the city are bad, and accidents are common. Still, public transport – especially minibuses and scooter taxis - is cheap even though it is not too safe.  Apart from road accidents, the major health hazards in the city are malaria and HIV/AIDS.  Awareness of malaria and HIV/AIDS is much better these days thanks to education programmes and campaigns but unfortunately many people cannot afford proper healthcare.

3E: Bangkok

Home to at least six million people, we call this city the “City of Angels” (Krung Thep). It sprawls for miles across what used to be a swamp. Some people are lucky enough to live near one of the stations of the skytrain. Now four years old, the skytrain has made a massive difference to getting around the city. Nevertheless, air pollution from traffic is still terrible on some days. The Public Health Ministry recently announced that the average IQ of children here has dropped 11 points below the world average – they are blaming lead poisoning from exhaust fumes. 

I take a motorbike to work, the only kind of taxi that will get me there on time on a weekday. We weave in and out of the traffic that is always a bit of a shock to newcomers. We pass half-built skyscrapers left abandoned after the 1997 economic crash, then past a state-of-the-art shopping mall and streets filled with food stalls selling the best food in the world, especially if you like it spicy. Planning what goes where always seems a bit random. With bars, nightclubs, restaurants and hawkers selling cheap copy clothes, shoes and watches to our many visitors, it’s a loud place too. The city’s temples (wats) are one of the few places to find peace and quiet. 

Traffic isn’t the only thing on the city’s roads. In the evenings, some elephant owners bring their animals into the city to sell sugar cane and earn a bit of money from tourists. Seeing an elephant walking down a main street sounds amazing, our streets are no places for elephants. Elephants were banned from the city’s streets earlier in the year, but it only took a few months before they returned. 

I suppose there are worse problems to worry about. Yaa-baa, a type of speed, has caused havoc – yaa-baa means ‘crazy drug’ in English, and a year ago there were many addicts on the streets of the city. Since then, there has been a heavy crackdown on dealers and addicts across the country. The newspapers say that thousands have died, gunned down by police, but the government says that the problem is going away.  




3F: Manaus

The city is named after an Indian tribe and means, “the daughter of the Gods”. It used to be one of the world’s most important cities as people got rich from rainforest rubber. Today, modern industries concentrate here, with many foreign companies like Yamaha, Sony, Philips and Samsung taking advantage of the low tax rates. 

Many people are only paid the minimum wage of $60 a month and have to do other things to survive. More people are now working in tourism and if you can afford it, there are new university courses to learn about working in the tourism sector. For tourists, there are the attractions of the rainforest, and trips down the Amazon and its many tributaries. And there are projects to make the city more beautiful, comfortable and safe for our visitors. 

The crime rate is not too bad, but in the last three years there have been more violent crimes that I usually hear about elsewhere – not here. The police are very corrupt and cannot be trusted; if you have money, they treat you like a citizen. If you don’t, they treat you like a bandit. 

Another problem for us is malaria. Sometimes, six thousand new cases are reported in a month. The worst spread of malaria is in new housing areas where mosquitoes breed in pools of water.

To get around the city, 80% of people use public transport. There are now big buses called Expressos. They are air-conditioned which is essential, especially in the summer when it is very humid and the temperature reaches the high 30s. But there are many more small cars on the road and the city is not prepared for this! 
 
As good Brazilians, we are passionate about soccer here. We have five soccer teams in the second division but only one big stadium. When the national team plays here, the city has a holiday, and everyone is free to go to the stadium to support the seleção brasileira. Dancing is big too, and in the last two years a kind of music known as forro has been the new fever. 



4A: Nairobi
The city sits on a plain high above sea level. We call it, "the city in the sun" as it enjoys sunshine for most of the year. No wonder the British colonialists could not resist settling here. Today, there are wide roads, parks, and modern shopping malls - everything you need in a big city is available. And where else on earth could you go on a game walk and see giraffes, elephants, lions and cheaters in their natural habitat behind the backdrop of a modern city skyline?
But all is not rosy in this city. Noise and air pollution plagues the eastern part, and pressure to industrialise threatens the wildlife park. The cost of living in the city is rising by up to 10% a year, and it is home to one of the largest slums in the world - over 40% of the city's population reside here. Like Amsterdam, the city has a ‘red light district’ too where sex workers try their luck at the risk of being arrested. 
Nightlife is very active. People move from one club to another depending on the type of music they want, be it African tunes, hip-hop, rap or jazz. One of the most modern clubs, Florida 2000, popularly known as'F2', may be ten thousand miles away from the USA but it may just as well be in Miami. In F2, young people from all races and nationalities mingle freely. In many of the clubs, a new breed of music with a strong hip-hop and rap influence that mixes English and local languages, is replacing western music.  
Like any other city, there are heavy traffic jams during rush hour, yet the traffic situation has improved in the last two years - our new government is raising the standard of public transport and repairing the road network. Most people travel across the city in Matatus, multi-coloured commuter vans with blaring sound systems. Matatu drivers rarely observe traffic rules. If they are stopped for a traffic offence, they give a 'kitu kidogo' (a bribe) to the traffic police and move on. Mobile phones are a very common feature in the city nowadays and just like the western world people here change them for new models very regularly. 
And for those who would like to eat game meat, "The Carnivore" is rated as one of the best restaurants in the world! 
4B: Reykjavik
The city is cold and grey in wintertime - there’s not much happening except going to the movies or theatre. There is one thing you can do all year round, that's going downtown and party all night long. The cosmopolitan nightlife or “runtur” (meaning circuit) is pretty wild at times especially in summertime. Klarvin is the local vodka. The nightlife starts around midnight and doesn’t stop until the morning. Some people don’t get home until 10am!

Summertime is good here. It’s bright and warm and the amusement park arrives in the city gardens (mid-April to mid-September). People take walks downtown and enjoy life as much as possible during the long daylight hours. There is clear air in the city with very little pollution. The city has plenty of good water, both cold and hot, which is used in the outdoor swimming pools that are enjoyed especially on sunny days. The hot water is supplied from natural, geo-thermal sources.

Although road traffic is not a serious problem in the country as a whole, traffic seems to be getting heavier and heavier with every day that passes. Traffic in the city is worst when you are getting to and from work or school, then you always get caught in traffic jams and always there is someone who doesn’t know how to drive on busy roads.

There is a high standard of living here with consumer goods, such as satellite television, in every home. The people are very high-tech - 80% of the nation has GSM cell phones, every kid down to 10 years old has a cell phone. Also, almost every home has a high-speed internet connection. The crime rate is rather low but it is growing each year. The streets are still safe to walk at day and night though.

This is the northern-most capital city, and it has been expanding through the years. Although at 112,000 it is not a huge city, it is home to half the country’s population. It has an open layout without high-rise buildings. This allows the domestic airport to be in the centre of the city, which is good as you only have to go a short distance when you are taking flight to other places in the country. There is also an international airport further from the city. It has a sea-going harbour for passengers and freight, especially fish and marine produce.


4C: Budapest

For me, this city is just the right size – it’s small enough to easily bump into people you know, but big enough to get lost in. The only thing missing is the sea, but to keep us close to water we have a river dividing the city in half, with a couple of islands in between. During rush hour it can take an hour and a half to get from one side of the river to the other by car. It takes five minutes via the underground, but we only have three subway lines (one is the oldest in the world) even though 2.5 million people live here! Not surprisingly, traffic is mad and bad. They are talking about closing off most of downtown to traffic once the ring roads are built. But now the city is very polluted. 

You just have to look at the buildings to see the massive changes that have taken place in this city – historical monuments, mementos of the communist days, the modern buildings, and there are a crazy amount of cafés and cinemas. Thanks to the city’s 120 natural hot springs, health spas and Turkish baths are very important part of life here as well – all ages use them. In the past few years, they have started holding huge parties at Turkish baths – they are the best!

The city is becoming more multicultural, although it’s not as colourful as I would like it to be. There are many Russians here, and plenty of other foreigners work in banks, hotels and for multinational companies. All the big fast food chains have been appearing in the past ten years too. 

The cost of living is getting close to the western world yet without the salaries to match. There are a growing number of very rich people, but many of them are accused of corruption. Crime is generally high – I do not feel safe walking alone late at night, and there is lots of car theft, prostitution and burglaries. The mafia is here too, trying to put their hand in new markets. Many people still don’t trust whoever is in power, as they say they have been mislead too many times. The question people are asking now is will we be better off when we join the European Union? 

It may have a fair share of problems, but most people I know love living in this city.


4D: Bogotá

Although I live in the tropics, at 2,600 metres above sea level this city is lovely because there is spring-like weather all year around. It is situated beneath two distinct and gorgeous hills, Monserrate and Guadalupe.  From here, you can see the modern skyline with its neon signs of Burger King, Tower Records and others, and La Candelaría, the old colonial part of the city.  

For some, the high altitude is a physical challenge. It is also a challenge to keep up with the hectic hustle and bustle of a city of nearly 11 million people. Street vendors sprout like mushrooms on every corner; they sell anything from herbal teas, arépas (corn cakes) avocados, potatoes, batteries, mobile phones, jewellery and medicines. 

In the last ten years I have noticed how traffic congestion has become overwhelming at times, along with the noise of horns and blaring radios on overcrowded buses.  I’m delighted with recent efforts to reduce traffic, like the staggered licence plate system and restricted parking on the sidewalks. We also have new buses called Transmelenio, (locally called, Transmilleno, or trans-full, as they are always overcrowded during rush hour). It all helps, but sometimes the system doesn’t work. 
The cost of living is high too even though some people only make £150 a year. 

The political situation in my country has caused a rise in crime - I know that kidnappings and violence is what most people hear about my city elsewhere in the world. But the authorities have tried hard to make the city more pleasant and secure. There are an incredible number of options for going out - it’s hard to keep up with the number of cool new bars, clubs and restaurants.  Parks have become a good place to hang out, even at night. There are lots of cultural activities here too, like street theatre, concerts and international film festivals. At weekends, I get to see my family, and we often go out to "La Sabana" country on the edge of the city to eat roast and get some fresh air.  

Even if people think it’s not as safe to live here as other cities, efforts made in the last ten years have made my city much more lively and interesting.
4E: Mumbai

This city never stands still – it’s busy 24 hours a day. The city covers a longish rectangular island connected to the mainland by several bridges, and it overlooks a wide bay. About 12 million people live here, and it’s growing all the time. Here, the law of the jungle prevails: ‘survival of the fittest’. Half the inhabitants live in slums, clinging to dreams of making it big in the city. Becoming a movie star is a dream shared by many as this is home to the world’s most creative film industry. 

In one area next to a railway track 32, 000 households have set up home. From time to time, the city authorities clear these slums and people have to find somewhere else to live. Some live in the huge water and sewage pipes left over from building projects; others build flimsy dwellings on the city’s pavements. Meanwhile, there are other inhabitants who are very, very rich. They need to be – rents in the luxurious suburbs are some of the highest in the world. 

It is one of the top five financial capitals of the world and it’s a very cosmopolitan place too – a mosaic of cultures and communities lead separate lives side-by-side in this city. 

As the city gets bigger and bigger, the traffic gets worse and worse. Stress from driving in the city has driven many commuters to breaking point. ‘Road rage’ is becoming more common, and the number of accidents is on the rise too. Meanwhile, the suburban rail network has more than two billion passengers a year, and you need guts to travel on a bus through the city during rush-hour – there are no doors and passengers are literally spilling out – you need good ‘flying skills’ to hold onto whatever you can! Pollution can be extreme because of all the vehicles on the city’s roads, and toxic chemicals churned out by factories in the new part of the city. 

5A: Beijing

This ancient city is changing very fast. It’s currently one big ‘let’s get ready for the Olympics’ building site - old blocks of Stalinist-style flats and traditional courtyards are being pulled down and replaced by dazzling, new high-rise apartment blocks and shopping malls, much like Hong Kong. Apparently, there are more cranes per square kilometre here than anywhere else in the world! Of course, pockets of the old city still exist in the lanes behind the Forbidden City. Other parts have escaped the developers so far. 

This city used to be famous as a sea of bicycles – five or six lanes deep at rush hour. Now cars are taking over and this is adding to already choking levels of pollution. Blue sky days here are something to be excited about. 
Ten years ago, clothing was still pretty drab – blues and greys – and it was amazing to have a phone in your home. Now young people are armed with WAP phones and dress like MTV VJs just like anywhere else. Football is big here too. Recently, I saw David Beckham play at the Workers Stadium, his first in the Real Madrid strip. Talk about hysteria!

5B: Madrid

People in this city are quite friendly compared to people elsewhere, but within the country we are seen as a bit cold and old-fashioned, and the cost of living is much higher too. Although it is still quite a traditional city, it has changed quite a lot. Everyone has a mobile phone these days, and more people from overseas have come to live here. Recently this city has become well known for the ‘purchase’ of a well-known English football player by the city’s top football team. Recently, he was voted one of the most famous people in the country! 

For me, the nightlife here is one of the best! During the summer, people of all ages gather around bars and go out to clubs. Walking along the streets at night you get invaded by promotions for free drinks. At this time of year it gets really hot as the city is located right in the centre of the country. This also means that the winters are pretty cold. 

As in the rest of the country, people eat quite a bit later than most places, and as we love eating we spend much more time sitting at the table and enjoying our food and wine. It is very popular to eat ‘tapas’, a set of small, traditional dishes. 

Getting around the city is easy as the public transport system has improved enormously in the last decade. Metro trains run regularly and there are lots of modern buses. But when it is very warm it’s terrible travelling by bus. Crime rates are not excessively higher than other cities in Europe, although some people might disagree with me. In fact, I think it’s a great city to live in!

5C: Buenos Aires

I may live in a South American city, but it has as much in common with European cities than others on this continent. Most people live in apartment blocks with open balconies much like Madrid, Paris or Rome, and the city’s 9th de Julio street is the world’s widest avenue. 

For this country, the city is huge – about a third of the country’s population lives in its metropolitan area. It is a lively place to live, especially at night time. Most people go out to eat around 11 pm then hit the bars around 1 am. And nightclubs don’t even open until 3 am! There is a big dance scene here, and tango is currently making a comeback as young people pick up this traditional form of dance that was born here. 

Football is another big passion. Maradona, possibly the best player ever, was born in Boca, one of the poorer districts on the southern outskirts of the city. Maradona used to play for the football club, Boca Juniors and he is almost treated like a god here. Another area of the city is home to River Plate, another successful football club that is known as ‘the millionaire’s club’ as the players earn so much money. 

Two years ago, the city was in turmoil. The country’s debt was out of control after the government had borrowed more and more from lenders overseas, and the economy had been poorly managed for years. As a desperate measure, the currency was devalued by two-thirds of its value. People reacted angrily as their savings and properties were suddenly worth so little. Over that Christmas/New Year period, the streets were filled with ordinary people protesting. When some of the protests turned into riots the authorities hit back with tear gas and showers of rubber bullets. It was chaos, and for the first time serious crimes, including murder, became commonplace. 

Thankfully, the tension of those times has died down, and it feels like a peaceful, safe city again. With the devalued peso, most people can no longer afford to travel or buy things from abroad but they are getting on with their lives. With our new President, there is a feeling of optimism for the future. Nevertheless, you can still see bullet holes in buildings, and many of our monuments are daubed with graffiti written by angry protesters. 

5D: Ho Chi Minh

At six in the morning you don’t need an alarm clock to wake up - you won’t sleep through the steady stream of motorbikes and their horns - six million of them! Meanwhile, bicycles are disappearing from the scene and cars are taking over as kings of the road. 

Traffic is not the only thing that has changed a lot. Since the USA lifted its trade embargo on the country ten years ago, neon signs advertising companies like Pepsi and Nike are everywhere. Many people now work in factories making clothes and shoes for these global companies. 

The war with America may be history now, but it is not forgotten. People crippled and scarred by napalm beg in the streets while others sell fake GI lighters to tourists. 

At 7 am, people of all backgrounds are on the streets, enjoying delicious one-dollar beef noodle soup or French baguettes and coffee on low plastic chairs. They shout one-syllable words in their mobiles or watch girls walking to school in their elegant white long dresses with a high split over wide trousers. How can they keep their dresses so white with all the fumes polluting the air? 

In the evening during the dry season, people gather on the pavement to have their rice dinners, to play checkers, to sell hammocks to tourists or to beg with their cone hats. When it rains, it pours, especially from May to November and then people rush home as fast as they can.



5E: Cairo

My city, the largest on the continent, is a great place for night owls 
and those interested in culture, especially historians. It has many 
different sections, with an old medieval part which includes a large castle, 
a nineteenth century CBD, former colonial areas and modern satellite towns. 

There are lots of restaurants, clubs and discos. You can go horse riding, 
play tennis at the many tourist hotels or go to a concert at the Opera 
House. In the last few years many international fast food outlets have 
appeared, which will deliver to your home. Supermarkets are also quite a new way of shopping here and just recently a hypermarket opened on the outskirts of the city. There are far more consumer goods available now than there were a few years ago, but only some people can afford them – the gap between rich and poor here is big. 

This city is home to a good many foreigners who find the local people are very friendly and welcoming. It is quite safe to be out on your own. The crime rate is low but the traffic can be pretty scary – you need courage and agility to cross roads here! The new metro and bridges over the river are supposed to have reduced the traffic jams but air pollution is still a major problem. It is also a very noisy place to live, as this city never sleeps!
